---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Crossing the Threshold
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-01-17
labels:
  - Engineering
  - ICS
  - College
---

## Finding what I want to do

Starting college in 2016, I thought I had a clear path set in front of me. I was in my high schools Engineering Academy, I've been part of a robatics team, I learned CAD, took two years of metal shop and wood shop classes, to me, I knew what I was going to do. I went in to my first year of college and was accepted to be in civil engineering. As the first day of school came about, I became axious and as I tend to do, overthink about the far future and worried that I would not be successful and happy. Because of that, I panicked and asked to switch over to computer engineering.

Thanks to this, this was my first experience in a college level programing course, EE 160. A handful of students found the class difficult and hard to understand, but the challange of learning how to code was appealing to me. After all, I have took basic classes on Python, co learning C was new and fun for me. I was happy, I was content with what I wanted to do for college, programming.

As I got to my second year in the program, the other side of computer engineering hit me. The hardware. A few weeks into the semester, I could not grasp any information. Everything that I was supposed to be learning was foreign to me with all these circuits and wires going everywhere. I spent more time worrying than I did studying. Why? Because I was not interested. I did not want to be looking at ciruit boards all day and analyze resistance and all that. I wasn't intersted so I could not learn. 

That was the semester that put me into a panic. I dropped both courses and took a "W" grade because I could not sit in a class that is supposed to help me in the future if I was not interested. Out of fear, I thought about my options, but I knew for a fact that I was dropping engineering. I thought about math, art, political science, but thought to myself that I am not truly interested in these topics. I settled for a B.A. in Philippine Language and Literature while I got myself together.

After talking to people, asking for advice, I decided to stick with something that I knew all my life, computers, and stay in the same field. Computer science appealed to me because unlike computer engineering, less hardware is involved which I seem to enjoy more. Now, I am content with where I am and feel like I have found what I want to do, and it is amatter of me putting myself out there to reach for a successful future.

# What college has taught me about myself

College was tough. The leap from high school was a big change, and I fel ill-prepared. With all the emotions that come and everything that happened around me, I hit som real low points in my life, and was a struggle to get back up. I found that after conquering one problem, another showed right up. And when that problem did come, I did not know how to over come it. It was a matter of finding my resources, finding who I am, finding the people around me who I can bring on this journey, and cross one threshold at a time. Because on the other side of difficulty, is always something positive. Slowly, I learned that and am building my self confidence up to make sure I can cross it every time.
